Document new `compilerOptions` DSL for 2.1.0 (#4520)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/multiplatform/multiplatform-dsl-reference.md

`kotlin {}` is the top-level block for multiplatform project configuration in the Gradle build script.
Inside `kotlin {}`, you can write the following blocks:

| **Block**            | **Description**                                                                                                                |
|----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| _&lt;targetName&gt;_ | Declares a particular target of a project. The names of available targets are listed in the [Targets](#targets) section.       |
| `targets`            | All targets of the project.                                                                                                    |

> | `presets`            | All predefined targets. Use this for [configuring multiple predefined targets](#targets) at once.                              |

Author: I removed documentation relating to deprecated `presets`

`kotlin {}` is the top-level block for multiplatform project configuration in the Gradle build script.
Inside `kotlin {}`, you can write the following blocks:

| **Block**            | **Description**                                                                                                                |
|----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| _&lt;targetName&gt;_ | Declares a particular target of a project. The names of available targets are listed in the [Targets](#targets) section.       |
| `targets`            | All targets of the project.                                                                                                    |
| `sourceSets`         | Configures predefined and declares custom [source sets](#source-sets) of the project.                                          |

> | `compilerOptions`    | Extension-level common [compiler options](#compiler-options) that are used as defaults for all targets and shared source sets. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `compilerOptions`    | Specifies common extension-level [compiler options](#compiler-options) that are used as defaults for all targets and shared source sets. |
```

The word sequence "common extension-level options" sounds better to me than "extension-level common options" for some reason, but feel free to ignore that :)

## Targets

A _target_ is a part of the build responsible for compiling, testing, and packaging a piece of software aimed at

> one of the supported platforms. Kotlin provides targets for each platform. See [Set up targets for Kotlin Multiplatform](multiplatform-set-up-targets.md).

Reviewer: Is it just me, or is there a little bit of a non sequitur? "Kotlin provides targets for each platform. See how to set up targets." But I thought Kotlin provides them?..

Do you think we can include a transition here that would explain the use case, a reason to follow this link?

Author: What do you think about:
A _target_ is a part of the build responsible for compiling, testing, and packaging a piece of software for
one of the supported platforms. Kotlin provides targets for each platform so you can instruct Kotlin to compile code for that specific target. To learn more about how to  configure these targets, see [Set up targets for Kotlin Multiplatform](multiplatform-set-up-targets.md).

Reviewer: Yep, this way it's immediately clear that it's about configuration and not setting up new ones.

In any target block, you can use the following declarations:

| **Name**            | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                | 
|---------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `attributes`        | Attributes used for [disambiguating targets](multiplatform-set-up-targets.md#distinguish-several-targets-for-one-platform) for a single platform.                                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `attributes`        | Attributes used to [disambiguate targets](multiplatform-set-up-targets.md#distinguish-several-targets-for-one-platform) for a single platform.                                              |
```

Also, the link text says "disambiguate" and the title of the section says "distinguish". Should they be aligned?

> | `platformType`      | Designates the Kotlin platform of this target. Available values: `jvm`, `androidJvm`, `js`, `wasm`, `native`, `common`.                                                                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `platformType`      | The Kotlin platform for this target. Available values: `jvm`, `androidJvm`, `js`, `wasm`, `native`, `common`.                                                                        |
```

| `artifactsTaskName` | The name of the task that builds the resulting artifacts of this target.                                                                                                                       |

> | `components`        | The components used to setup Gradle publications.                                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `components`        | Components used to set up Gradle publications.                                                                                                                                              |
```

> | `compilerOptions`   | The [compiler options](#compiler-options) used for the target. This declaration overrides any `compilerOptions {}` configured at [top level](multiplatform-dsl-reference.md#top-level-blocks). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `compilerOptions`   | [Compiler options](#compiler-options) used for the target. This declaration overrides any `compilerOptions {}` configured at the [top level](multiplatform-dsl-reference.md#top-level-blocks). |
```

Author: I accepted half of this one. I didn't include "_the_ top level". It sounds more natural without "the" as there is only one top level.

    }

    // Configure all compilations of all targets:
    compilerOptions {
        allWarningsAsErrors = true
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

## Compiler options

You can configure compiler options in your projects at three different levels:

> * **Extension level**, by using it as a top-level block.

Reviewer: I was a bit lost trying to understand what "it" refers to here. We could mention the `compilerOptions {}` block at least in the first list item, to smooth the experience.

Author: What about this instead:
* **Extension level**, as a top-level block.
* **Target level**, in the target block.
* **Compilation unit level**, usually as a specific compilation task.
Then we can keep the structure lean and explain exactly _how_ (with the `compilerOptions {}` block) later in the section. WDYT?

> * **Target level**.

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention that it is available in the specific target DSL block?

Author: Would the below work?
> **Target level**, by using it in the target block.

Reviewer 2: yes

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
kotlin {
    jvm {
        // Configures all compilations of the JVM target
        compilerOptions {
            allWarningsAsErrors.set(true)
        }
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
kotlin {
    jvm {
        // Configures all compilations of the JVM target
        compilerOptions {
            allWarningsAsErrors = true
        }
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

### Compilation unit level

To configure compiler options for a specific compilation, use the `compilerOptions {}` block inside the `compilations` object:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
kotlin {
    jvm {
        compilations.getByName("main") {
            compileTaskProvider.configure {
                // Configures the 'main' compilation:
                compilerOptions {
                    allWarningsAsErrors.set(true)
                }
            }
        }    
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
kotlin {
    jvm {

>         compilations.main.compileTaskProvider.configure {

Reviewer 2: This snippet works both for KTS and Groovy:
```
jvm {
        compilations.named(KotlinCompilation.MAIN_COMPILATION_NAME) {
            compileTaskProvider.configure {
                compilerOptions {
                    
                }
            }
        }
    }
```

Though your examples are working too, so up to you to change them.

            // Configures the 'main' compilation:
            compilerOptions.allWarningsAsErrors = true
        }
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

To configure compiler options for a specific task, use the `compilerOptions {}` block inside the task:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin

> task.named<KotlinJvmCompile>("compileKotlinJvm"){

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
task.named<KotlinJvmCompile>("compileKotlinJvm") {
```

    compilerOptions {
        allWarningsAsErrors.set(true)
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy

> task.named<KotlinJvmCompile>("compileKotlinJvm"){

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
task.named<KotlinJvmCompile>("compileKotlinJvm") {
```

</tab>
</tabs>

### Target level

To configure compiler options for a specific target in your project, use the `compilerOptions {}` block inside the target block:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
kotlin {
    jvm {
        // Configures all compilations of the JVM target
        compilerOptions {
            allWarningsAsErrors.set(true)
        }
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
kotlin {
    jvm {
        // Configures all compilations of the JVM target
        compilerOptions {
            allWarningsAsErrors = true
        }
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

### Compilation unit level

To configure compiler options for a specific task, use the `compilerOptions {}` block inside the task:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
task.named<KotlinJvmCompile>("compileKotlinJvm") {
    compilerOptions {
        allWarningsAsErrors.set(true)
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
task.named<KotlinJvmCompile>("compileKotlinJvm") {
    compilerOptions {
        allWarningsAsErrors = true
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

> To configure compiler options for a specific compilation, use the `compilerOptions {}` block inside the `compilations` object:

Reviewer 2: I would rephrase it to something like this:

You could also access compilation task provider from a specific compilation and configure this task compiler options via `compilerOptions {}` DSL

</tab>
</tabs>

### Target level

To configure compiler options for a specific target in your project, use the `compilerOptions {}` block inside the target block:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
kotlin {
    jvm {
        // Configures all compilations of the JVM target
        compilerOptions {
            allWarningsAsErrors.set(true)
        }
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
kotlin {
    jvm {
        // Configures all compilations of the JVM target
        compilerOptions {
            allWarningsAsErrors = true
        }
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

### Compilation unit level

> To configure compiler options for a specific compilation, use the `compilerOptions {}` block inside the `compilations` object:

Reviewer 2: Maybe better to mention a way to configure via task and then mention how to access task via `KotlinCompilation`.

> To configure compiler options for a specific compilation, use the `compilerOptions {}` block inside the `compilations` object:

Author: I updated the code block. Can you check that it and the groovy version are correct now?
Can you also share kotlin/groovy samples for "a way to configure via task and then mention how to access task via KotlinCompilation"?

> To configure compiler options for a specific compilation, use the `compilerOptions {}` block inside the `compilations` object:

Reviewer 2: > Can you also share kotlin/groovy samples for "a way to configure via task and then mention how to access task via KotlinCompilation"?

Basically you `tasks.named` examples and then your examples with `compilations.named("main") { compileTaskProvider... }`

> To configure compiler options for a specific compilation, use the `compilerOptions {}` block inside the `compilations` object:

Author: Ok, I swapped the order!
